NOTE: source from Wiki pages:
Qualcomm:
1)Qualcomm's 4G LTE technology inventions laid the foundation for the first global standard for mobile broadband. By licensing our technology and increasing our patent portfolio, we enabled the LTE ecosystem to grow to 600+ commercial networks worldwide.
2)Qualcomm (/ˈkwɒlkɒm/)[2] is an American multinational corporation headquartered in San Diego, California, and incorporated in Delaware.[3] It creates semiconductors, software, and services related to wireless technology. It owns patents critical to the 5G,[4] 4G,[4] CDMA2000, TD-SCDMA and WCDMA mobile communications standards.
3)Its early research into CDMA wireless cell phone technology was funded by selling a two-way mobile digital satellite communications system known as Omnitracs.
4)It also developed semiconductor components or software for vehicles, watches, laptops, wi-fi, smartphones, and other devices.
5) The company was named Qualcomm for "QUALity COMMunications".
6) Early history. Qualcomm was created in July 1985 by seven former Linkabit employees led by Irwin Jacobs. The company was named Qualcomm for "QUALity COMMunications". It started as a contract research and development center largely for government and defense projects.

2G-------CDMA
3G--------TDMA and CDMA
4G, 4G_LTE(Long term evolution)-------CDMA based Ultra Mobile Broadband(UMB).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AMD:
1)Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), global company that specializes in manufacturing semiconductor devices used in computer processing. The company also produces flash memories, graphics processors, motherboard chip sets, and a variety of components used in consumer electronics goods.
2)  AMD's main products include microprocessors, motherboard chipsets, embedded processors, graphics processors, and FPGAs for servers, workstations, personal computers, and embedded system applications.
3) Cons: High-end system needs an expensive motherboard, considerably decreasing the cost gap. AMD processor is worse for gaming platform. higher power Energy.

AMD made the Ryzen 9 series for those who require last-gen Threadripper performance on the same consumer-grade socket that is AM4. The result is a small family of processors that rock an insane number of cores for incredible multi-core performance.

For
More affordable
12 cores
Lower TDP
PCIe 4.0
Against
Worse per-core performance
Older
No integrated GPU




Intel's newer processor to compete against the Ryzne 9 3900X is a clear winner for per-core performance. This was expected with Intel having more time to perfect this generation of the Core i9, better competing against AMD in the enthusiast sector, and nailing it for gamers.

For
Better per-core performance
More recent
Integrated GPU
Against
More expensive
"Only" 10 cores
Higher TDP
No PCIe 4.0

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intel:
1) It is the world's largest semiconductor chip manufacturer by revenue,[2][3] and is one of the developers of the x86 series of instruction sets, the instruction sets found in most personal computers (PCs). Incorporated in Delaware,[4] Intel ranked No. 45 in the 2020 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue for nearly a decade, from 2007 to 2016 fiscal years.[5]

2) Intel supplies microprocessors for computer system manufacturers such as Acer, Lenovo, HP, and Dell. Intel also manufactures motherboard chipsets, network interface controllers and integrated circuits, flash memory, graphics chips, embedded processors and other devices related to communications and computing.

3) Intel (integrated and electronics) was founded on July 18, 1968, by semiconductor pioneers Gordon Moore (of Moore's law) and Robert Noyce (1927–1990), and is associated with the executive leadership and vision of Andrew Grove.
---------- 
Pros of Intel Processors 
1.) Compatibility: Being one of the most important processor brand names on the market, the Intel CPUs are available widely. This provides consumers with a more flexible ability of PC choices, a greater variety of features, and can be found in devices going for a lower price.  

2.) Power Consumption: Intel processors in notebook computers are not electricity-intensive, using less power than other CPUs on the market. For instance, the AMD CPU uses up to double or even triple the wattage as Intel’s Atom CPU, which powers the Netbook. The difference is readily noticeable in the battery by comparison.

3.) Heat Generation. Due to is lower wattage consumption, the Intel processing chips generate less heat. In a mini-computer, builders pack parts more tightly together, so less heat generated by the processor causes everything else to stay cooler.

4.) Production Capacity. With 15 CPU development plants globally, Intel can generate a higher fabrication volume, meaning that their CPUs are going to be available more widely and used in a significant number of machines.
5.) Integrated Graphics: Generally, when you’re looking at a CPU, it comes down to either AMD or Intel. One thing that gives Intel an upper hand is that it comes with integrated Iris or HD graphics out of the box. That means you can go straight to gaming or streaming high-quality video without a GPU.
--------
Cons of Intel Processors
1.) Availability. On the darker side of high production capacity, there is also another factor involved. Being in higher demand means that there is a lot of manufacturers competing for the finite volume of Intel processors. This means that they are less widely available to those who are not ahead of the curve. When a new version of processors begins development, many manufacturers will be caught in a situation where they will be “behind the times” with how long it takes them to acquire the chips.
2.) Power Drain. While the power drain in notebook PCs is very low, that does not hold for desktop computers. These are electricity-intensive, generating more heat, and therefore causing the PCs cooling system to work overtime, producing a higher power drain.

3.) Heat. Some of the more powerful Intel processors do generate a considerable amount of heat. The multicore processors use more energy, causing the CPU to be hotter, and therefore require multiple fans operating to cool it down. This type of heat can decrease the processor’s durability, and make a notebook type PC hot to the touch as the fanning system is not as robust as a desktop’s.

4.) Price. Intel is a commanding name in the industry, known for their better processors, and therefore, their brand name commands a higher market price. The higher the processor price, the more it costs PC manufacturers causing them to raise the entire cost of the machine. Because of this, most devices using Intel processors are more expensive. Once new models are released, the cost of older processors tend to reduce in price. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microchip Technology:
What is a microchip used for?
Image result for microchip wiki
Today, microchips are used in smartphones that allow people to use the internet and have a telephone video conference. Microchips are also used in televisions, GPS tracking devices, identification cards as well as medicine, for the speedier diagnosis of cancer and other diseases.
1) icrochip Technology Inc. is a publicly-listed American corporation that manufactures microcontroller, mixed-signal, analog and Flash-IP integrated circuits. Its products include microcontrollers (PIC, dsPIC, AVR and SAM), Serial EEPROM devices, Serial SRAM devices, embedded security devices, radio frequency (RF) devices, thermal, power and battery management analog devices, as well as linear, interface and wireless products.
2) Microchip Technology offers 8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit PIC microcontrollers, dsPIC digital signal controllers, 3analog and interface products, security authentication products, timing/communication/real-time clock and calendar products, real-time clock and calendar devices, memory products, wireless products, high-throughput USB and Ethernet interfaces, MOST technology, embedded controllers and super I/O devices, touch, multi-touch and 3D gesture control products, power over Ethernet systems and ICs, and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs).